Colossians chapter 4 of universe 2.
Continue earnestly in prayer being vigilant with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains.
That I may make manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in
wisdom toward those who are outside redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace, season with salt, that you may know how you want to answer each one.
This is the word of God to the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reading of the word.
You may be seated.
I don't mean to make you upset, but I'm going to talk about the interstate 24 bridge for a moment.
He just mentioned that thing and people go we have lots of plans our church does on a regular basis We like to go to Fort Mass Act to do things But did you know of all the things we wanted to do in the last couple years that bridges said we just don't know if we get there We don't know if we get back and so we've had to change plans on how we do think because of that bridge and sometimes folks say
Well, bridges aren't that important.
You just cross them.
Well, what if you can't?
What if you're traveling somewhere in the bridge is gone?
What's your backup plan?
We got broke-poor bridge.
And sometimes there's a semi-nots supposed to be on there coming across.
Now everybody's backed up for hours.
It is a mess.
So the reason I talk about that is because we know why bridges are built so we can rely on them to get us across something.
that we couldn't otherwise cross.
It connects one thing to another.
And that's what bridges do.
And that's a good thing when they work, right?
Well, my wife and I were at the World War II Museum a couple of months ago.
It's in New Orleans.
Excellent, excellent place to go.
Take your morning, day and go through the thing.
It is huge.
But one of the displays there was about Normandy Beach in Asia.
A lot of you may know the history of that, but it was the most important day
And World War II, the balanced hung on that day, invasion.
Well, the plan, a lot of deception involved, like people expect in warfare, but part of the plan was to drop some paratroopers behind Normandy Beach to blow up bridges and roadways so that the Germans couldn't get supplies and troops reinforced.
And those folks who might retreat from Normandy Beach are going to be surrounded on the backside as well.
So that was the plan.
You see what they were trying to do was to cut them off from what their connection of supply line was.
So if you want someone to be in desperate straits cut off their supply line and then they don't have reinforcements or way to make things happen, that's what they did through a very bloody brutal campaign that day changed the course of the war.
It broke into Europe and then
the allied forces and our forces were able to make a headway and make a push toward Germany.
Thank God that it worked.
But the thing that I want to point out to you is that they no longer had connection to the things that matter, their supplies and things like that.
So if you want to feel disconnected, don't have a bridge.
How would you get to Illinois without the 24 bridge
or the Brookport Bridge.
Would you make plans to go another day?
Would you go to Charleston and up and around?
Would you go through Carol?
Would you go up through Kate?
How would you do it?
There's a lot of different ways to get there, but none of them are easy without that, are they?
So we rely on that.
And one of the things that I think about in terms of that is that connection.
You know, people from Illinois and Kentucky, we connect with each other.
Some work there, some work here.
Some families are connected that way.
That's what a bridge does.
It makes two things closer by connecting them.
And I think if you realize that not only does a bridge cross over, it also makes that connection.
It doesn't erase the distance.
It makes it
cross-overable.
Is that a word?
Crossable.
That's a better word.
It makes that distance crossable.
And the truth about bridges, using physical ones as an example, they can also occur in relationships.
Sometimes bridges are cut off and broken, but when they're in place, connections happen.
That's what we're going to talk about today, are the relationship bridges.
We cross the bridge of trust to engage with another person.
You see, it doesn't matter how close you are to somebody, you're still two distinct people.
And that gap that you cross through relationship, friendship, and time is the bridge between that relationship.
No matter if you're right next to each other, you still need a way to connect.
And no matter what way that connection is, that's called a relationship bridge.
When rivers or canyons divide, we need a bridge, and it declares connection is still possible even when those things are there.
And it's the same way for the kingdom of God.
Wherever relationships, backgrounds, or beliefs separate people, Jesus positions His church to be the bridge.
Jesus asks us to connect with other people.
A bridge is just as a connecting point with somebody.
That's all it is.
It can't wait to connect.
Whatever that common ground is or whatever the way that that's happening, that's what a relationship bridge is.
Yet there are many of us who won't do that and we get various numbers of reasons for it.
When we get hurt in a relationship, for example, or situation, future things in that relationship remind us of what happened
And so we're hesitant to have any further building that friendship.
So we're hesitant and guarded when it comes to that particular person or situation.
Because of what happened, they put a unsafe bridge across, signed up for us.
So we wall up, even when the person or situation has nothing to do with the old one, but it reminds us of it.
You know what I mean by that?
Like if we've had a bad situation here with this person and this other person comes along and they're similar, well, you're going to do what they did, so I'm not going to trust you.
We connected whether the other person's trustable or not.
So we're hesitant and guarded from that moment forward.
And that's what happened.
It's just part of our own human psyche to protect us first before engaging, especially when the situation reminds us of a potentially dangerous one
that happened in the past.
A bridge for me that was relevant was when I trusted Pastor Elton in Malawi.
I had never set foot in Africa.
I'd engage with him many times through an online video and pastoral training, but
In my mind, I'm thinking, what if this is all set up?
Well, they're all cool hooks.
When I get to the airport, there's going to be all these 20 guys who said they were passive.
And here's Richard.
And I was hundreds of dollars and all his luggage and stuff.
And they're going, see you.
And take everything.
So I didn't know.
There was that beer, right?
Can you imagine how I felt when I got off the plane.
And I saw him waving with his wife.
And 20 women serenading us, thanking us for coming.
I breathed a sigh of relief.
I had never felt nice said, God, this is going to be good.
It was one of the most exhilarating moments of my life of relief.
Because I went from apprehension and fear to, this is God, right like that.
And it was about the character of the person that was being connected with.
And the guy was set to go.
That connection was real.
That bridge was real.
And it finally was crossed after two days on an airplane and airplane terminals.
It's not a fun thing to do to expect and not be sure that your expectations are going to be met one way or the other.
But when God sends you
He's ensuring you that He's going with you.
And sometimes we don't know that.
Scripture tells us that the gospel is a bridge.
In Ephesians chapter 2 verses 13 through 16, it talks about those of us who are far off, in other words, Gentiles, not part of the Kingdom of God or Israel, were brought near by the blood of Jesus Christ.
So the gospel
brings two separate factions, Jewish Gentiles into one through the blood of Christ.
That's the gospel.
He is his blood is the bridge that makes two sides into one.
Now, we're still Gentiles and they're still Jewish, but we're now all crossing the bridge of the family of God.
We're all part of God's family now.
because of Christ's blood.
That's a bridge.
It's made us something different.
And when we cross back and forth across that bridge, we're uniting the fact that we belong together in God's kingdom.
Now there's some folks who resist that and that's understandable because they don't understand what the blood of Christ did.
But we who had no hope without Christ, we understand, don't we?
Our reconciling peace is Jesus Christ.
So what scripture says, He has broken down every wall of prejudice that separated us.
That's a different translation of that same passage in Ephesians.
It broke down every wall of prejudice that separated us.
And guess who was prejudiced?
Both sides, anti-Semitic, and the Semitic is not trusting the Gentiles.
Don't have relationship with Gentile.
And we don't have relationship with Jews because of anti-Semitism, which is still prevalent.
So if the gospel reconciles heaven and earth, it can also reconcile neighbor and neighbor.
It can connect them because the gospel is a bridge.
You might remember the day at Pentecost.
in Acts chapter 2.
Briefly, the Holy Spirit descended, Peter preached, people saw tongues of fire and they understood the gospel in their own language and 3,000 people were added to the church that day.
Now, there were people from all over that had required to come and pilgrimage to Jerusalem to the Deapekos.
The Deapekos is not
called the day of Pentecost because the Holy Spirit was given.
It was already called that.
It's Penta, meaning five.
And so it was five weeks after the previous festival.
And so what I'm trying to tell you though is that everybody heard the gospel in their own tongue.
And there were many different nations and personalities there.
And some of them did not understand what other people said.
Peter spoke in one language
They've heard it in their own.
Listen to this.
If you speak one language and somebody else speaks another, how are you going to connect?
How can you talk?
There was no connection.
All these people in this place speaking all these different languages are going, I don't know you.
I can't talk to you.
I'm going to find the people who speak my language.
So there was no commonality.
There was no way they would associate
with people of different dialect, nationality, or color, other than Pentecost.
But people were from all over there, and on that day, all 3,000 that joined were of all those different dialects and origins, and they became one.
Because the power of the Holy Spirit is a gospel.
People who were divergent from each other, not associating, became one is the church.
They became one is the body of Christ.
So it doesn't matter where someone comes from or what they say or how they think.
In Christ we become one.
See, we don't talk about that much about the day of Pentecost because what we talk about is how wonderful the church and everybody heard their own tongue.
But we forget about the cultural resistance to that.
They would not do that of their own volition.
The Holy Spirit broke down barriers and built bridges of connection
by hearing the gospel and they all welcomed into the body of Christ and the Kingdom of God and Gentiles were welcomed too.
This, my friends, is nothing short of America.
To take all the dividing walls between several nations and national type of loyalty and they all become one.
on the same page.
Do you see that happen today here?
Do you see that happen all of a sudden everybody going, let's all do this together.
We're going to work.
It just doesn't happen very often, does it?
But that's what happened on the damn Pentecost.
And I'm so thankful it did because it gave us an example of what a bridge does by the Gospel.
And that's why the Gospel is a bridge and can show you clearly what it does.
And then when the church doesn't do that, but rather builds walls and bridges, those barriers can often form quietly, sometimes quickly, not from malice, but from maintenance.
The church tried to protect itself in the way it does things.
They can't have other people come and do these things.
They come and do those things.
That's not the way we do it, so they can't be here.
We're just trying to maintain what we're used to.
Preference becomes exclusion.
The castle has a motor around it.
The motor around it is to keep the people they don't want there away from it.
Sometimes they have alligators.
Could you imagine, or crocodiles even, could you imagine some of those getting up in the castle?
The same thing keeping the people outside.
away keeps in, people inside, stuck inside.
I can't cross that boat, so they have a drawbridge.
And they only let those who are invited and welcome, they're expected to come in.
But when it was allocated on the shore, would there any kind of sneaks in?
Kind of messes the whole thing up for the milk, doesn't it?
But we want to protect ourselves.
And so we build these walls, and we only let what we want in, and we close the doors to the rest, like that drawbridge.
But the church is not a castle.
The body of Christ is not a castle.
It needs a moat.
It's a body of Christ that needs open arms to say, we are open to love, not to reject.
But that isn't a bridge, is it?
That's just saying you're welcome here, but it isn't building a bridge.
In James chapter 2, it says this,
How can you claim to have faith if you favor some people over others?
Talking about the favoritism that was shown to the wealthy and not favored to those who were not.
And he talked about that.
But favoritism cracks your fellowship.
So if you prefer some people that are not these people, you're going to have more fellowship with these and you're going to feel more welcome than what your attitude and your actions do to the others.
is called favoritism, breaks down communication and builds walls.
Bridges and building a bridge requires humility.
Bridges also require a willingness to welcome people we may not understand or know.
We can connect with others if we're interested in them.
And I want to show you what I mean by that.
Yesterday, if you were at the funeral for Jimmy, you knew what I said.
But I want to kind of recap why I said what I said.
Chris's obituary was beautiful, captured his life.
These things about him, I did not know.
I didn't know about Adam's luck.
Or any of those things he used to say.
All of the knowledge that he had.
And I'd spent hours at the house with him and Carolyn and several times outside of his home seeing him.
But I didn't know all the wealth of knowledge that he had because I didn't ask the right questions.
During funerary yesterday I said, now I know the questions I wish I would have known to ask.
But I didn't know to ask those questions because I didn't know what he did.
But he didn't offer either.
So it was like, if he'd offered it, we'd have been there for a long time apparently because he knew a lot about a lot.
So if we're interested in people, we want to build connection, we want to find out their story.
We don't just want to know where they're from or where they work.
We want to know what they know.
Because every human being is gifted by God for something.
Why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
God has gifted each one of us for a talent or something that makes a difference in this world.
And until we connect with someone and know what that is, we still gotta get deeper connected.
They may not even know what it is.
But to make that connection and learn what that gift thing is that they have and the knowledge they have, then only they have for that particular thing.
That's when you're making connection.
So you gotta be naturally curious and inquisitive and designed to know who they are and ask questions.
until you get there to build that.
And that means you gotta go to their territory of their life and spend some time there.
That's called connecting.
That's a bridge.
Once you get there, all of a sudden you say, wow, this is why God created this first.
This is exciting.
I can't wait to see what he does with him in the kingdom of God.
Love to see what he does to help people in other ways and wonder if they even do or not, and then to explore it out with them.
All of a sudden you have to envision their life by being naturally curious about who they are.
That builds a bridge.
And you know what?
If they know you're curious about their life and really want to know about who they are and care for them as a person, they want that bridge in place.
They absolutely do.
And here's the thing we think, well, I don't know if people want this or not.
I don't know if it's right.
I don't know if it's protocol.
Well, listen to this.
Jesus crossed every social line you can think of.
He did it all in John, chapter four, just one chapter.
He did it like three places, three different times with one person.
He sat down with a woman.
You didn't both sit with a woman.
You're a Jew.
She's a dead dog American, no less.
One of the worst words, you're a man.
She's a woman.
You do not talk to them.
You do not associate.
You do not buy fear of even mortified fear of talking to some areas associated with one makes you all clean and richly unsafe.
So you can't do this.
Jesus says, give me a drink of water.
And she looks in and says, you can't do that.
You can't do this.
Jesus crosses the line because he's making a connection.
And you see throughout the entire fourth chapter that he's building into her relationship and talking about her gifting.
And he understands her.
It sounds crazy.
But listen to this.
She's going to connect with people.
She had a lot of husbands.
I mean, she knew how to talk to people and get them.
And no, she was interested in them and hurt them and her.
She was good at that.
Jesus said, that'd be really good to use the right way, wouldn't it?
get people interested in the kingdom rather than her.
And don't you see at the end of the chapter?
She goes and tells everybody and they all come.
She's good at connecting.
But Jesus had to connect with her first to build that bridge and get her to trust that her gift could be used for good.
That makes sense?
So Jesus crossed line because he knew why he was crossing and what the benefit of it would be.
Jesus turns uncomfortable places into holy places That's what he does I Imagine from that day forward when people go to that well They remember that as a holy place Because what Jesus did there what happened there and the history of that well and When you walk in obedience
Jesus will ensure that those uncomfortable places you are willing to go on his path become bridges, connections.
And I gotta tell you, and this is so obvious, I almost didn't think of it when I was preparing this message, but when you build a bridge, you can cross it both ways.
Who knows, right?
You can cross the bridge, I go over them, but I can also come back.
And then you come over.
And they can go back, and we can meet in the middle.
We can do all these things that are rich, enables us to do.
It enables us to go back and forth, if we so choose and for others to do the same.
It opens up connection, both directions, so that they can come and see with you and your stuff too.
Get to know you.
Find out what makes you tick, and it develops in a connection as well.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, it talks about Christ making all things new.
And then it says this, God was in Christ reconciling us to Himself and then giving us the ministry of reconciling others and He calls us ambassadors for the kingdom of God.
What I mean by that is the moment you were reconciled by God through Jesus Christ to Himself, you were recruited.
You're a new recruit.
into the kingdom of God, and you have the story to tell and the ministry you can share with what God did for you.
Apostle Paul said, I became all things all people in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 22, that by some way I might meet and reach some.
Now this work of building bridges may be the hardest thing for you to do, because you might be real introverted in all that, but listen to this.
God's calling you out of your comfort zone into places you wouldn't go otherwise.
Listen, I know about this stuff.
I didn't want to go to Africa.
That was not my comfort zone.
He calls you out of places where you were uncomfortable and you don't want to go.
That's how you know God's calling you there.
He says, I want you to go there, but I'm uncomfortable.
God, I know.
We'll go where we're comfortable.
but we don't want to go overnight.
So if God calls us there, we have to trust God to bring us there for the purpose he sent us there.
When you keep in mind, even when you're uncomfortable, you are building a bridge and you have a ministry to do there and you're helping somebody else find hope, the task in front of you seems more important than the hesitancy inside.
When you get to that point, you go because the task is more important than your fear to do it.
It's not always easy.
I'm not saying that.
Wouldn't say that because it's not.
It's wrestling inside.
But building a bridge isn't something you do without God.
You can't.
He's asked you to do it.
He's going to help you do it.
You can set the parameters in place.
We go because he tells us to go.
Not because we think it's a good idea, but God has called us to go, and then we know He will back it up.
We built bridges, and they're built with compassion and courage.
Compassion gives the bridge the strength, but courage gives it its span.
In other words, you don't have a lot of courage.
Your bridge is going very far from you.
Did you know, not far from us, I don't know if it's still a world record or not, but in Southern Illinois, there's the largest or at least longest single span concrete bridge in the world.
I don't know what it still is, but it was.
And if you don't know what I'm talking about, at the intersection of 145 and 146, just the west of Dixon Springs, there's a bridge that crosses over a large can in there,
And on the other side is the chocolate factory and the entrance to Texas Springs State Farm.
Not too far from here.
But underneath it, some people call it ghost hollow, ghost dance.
There's a couple different names for that.
But if you go under that bridge, and I've been under there a lot of times, so that was my backyard clay area.
And we would go under that bridge and hang out under that bridge.
That thing's immense.
It's huge.
It's the largest, as I said, concrete arch span, self-supporting.
in the world.
And I don't know if that's still today, but it was at the time it was built in for many years there.
And it's that close.
But to get across that large of a span to build concrete, you've got to have plans and ways to do it and trust it, it's all going to work.
It takes courage to start putting that in place and not even knowing being it's the world's biggest if it's going to hold up because no one's ever done it before.
You know, just like, well, there is not a just life.
We're doing this on faith and courage
that what we designed and built, and we're called to do, it's got to work.
Solid principles yet, but you're still going to have the courage to build it, put the money into it.
You think Southern Illinois doesn't have much of a deer and a few people, and then you got that hidden there.
You need your wheels on a very smooth surface.
It's there.
So that span to courage,
for them to build that and invest all that money to make that.
Bridge builders stand in tension with a foot on each side here and over here across the span.
Our hearts are here and here trying to unite hearts together and the bigger the span, the more courage it takes because the further distance people are from us or lack of comfort there, the more it's going to take courage to go, to converse.
To connect, and it's going to take more for them to want to come back across.
It takes courage to believe God can.
But we have to do it.
Because when we lose our compassion, we lose our ability to love them.
And we do this in compassion, this connection.
God is seeking those to love others the same way that Jesus does.
and Jesus was building bridges everywhere he went.
Connections.
And it costs time to connect.
It costs comfort and need to need to be misunderstood and have even some misunderstanding and all that.
But Colossians tells us by the blood of his cross, everything in heaven and earth is brought back to himself by the blood of the cross.
If Jesus born nails,
to bridge the gap between us and God, we can bear discomfort to do the same.
Some people are so afraid to start from their anxiousness, and then they complain it's too hard, and they haven't done anything.
I saw a kid in school one day at a blank sheet of paper, the teacher didn't start going to draw something, anything you want, and a kid just crying there, the blank sheet of paper, and the teacher says,
What's wrong with that?
I can't do it.
The teacher that you haven't made a mark yet.
Until you start, you don't know you can.
Until you attempt, you don't know.
So God is saying, don't tell them it's too hard until you at least give an effort to do what he asks you to do, which is love and connect.
It makes sense, doesn't it?
The barriers fall when love rises.
John 14 says, perfect love casts out fear.
So if fear builds fences, love builds friendships.
That's what we call the do.
Love is the language of the uninvited.
Those of you disconnected still know what love sounds like.
So we need to be love and loving before we speak truth.
The moment you see a barrier following someone who doesn't trust and is newly connected is one of those amazing moments in life.
When all of a sudden they're fear and anxiety and rejection and disconnection and all of a sudden it's safe and you see that fear melt into safety, you'll never forget that.
You will never.
I know when someone is deathly afraid
or lives in fear and all of a sudden they realize they are included and that fear melts away off their face and they see this smile grow on their face and this look of pose for me too.
I mean I get to be included too and the tears of joy come on and you can't fake that.
You can't fake genuine transformation of someone in fear moving the house above.
This is a bridge and what the connection does.
People don't think we actually can or love them until we get to know them and connect with them.
Then they do.
And this is what we're called to do is a church.
The question is how do we do it?
It's not difficult.
Not difficult at all.
It takes a little time, sure, but it's not difficult.
The first thing we have to do is personal.
We have to look at ourselves and say, what part of me am I resistant to connecting?
Am I introverted?
Am I not going out?
Am I not going to talk to people?
What is it about me?
What barriers do I have that hinder making a connection with somebody?
I don't want to get to know people in the type of thing.
Or I'm not curious enough to ask.
So once you identify those, you can engage just one person.
just one who's a little bit outside the comfort zone.
So you can begin to do the work to see what it's like when that connection is happening.
Our community has divisions, you can say in all it does and it's a great community.
Our community has divisions.
If you don't think so, start talking politics or the governor or football or basketball or anything like that,
You're going to find a topic people don't agree with you on.
There are divisions in our community, some more serious, some less, but they're still there.
So we need to pray about those, especially the ones that keep the whole way from trusting God or to church.
The last thing we do is model this connection and keep doing it.
Reach across those divides publicly and personally.
You say, great preacher, we'll try that.
But, you know, I'm going to try building that bridge, but it might get hard.
It might get difficult.
Okay, that's true with Mike, but I want to tell you something.
If you want to get to the trouble is bad enough, you go across the corporate bridge.
You'll go all the way through Missouri, the Carol, wherever you got to go to get there.
If you want to get there bad enough, if you want to connect, you will do what you need to do.
Especially God to ask you to do it.
He's going to help you get it done.
So if the 24 bridges close and you're resisted there anyway, take the long way.
Love, connect, build bridges.
This is what God asks us to do to align with his heart.
Would you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, sometimes our bridges are lack of forgiveness and relationships.
Sometimes our bridges, the need built are just someone whose neighbor we don't get along with or a neighbor we don't even talk to or even know their name.
Sometimes those bridges are areas where we've been resistant to having a conversation that we need to have because you know it would be
healing and transformation.
So I put on our hearts what we need to be doing and about to build the bridges and tear down the walls inside of us during this Lenten season.
Help us to repent of those walls and each day seek out a new way to build a bridge.
I ask you this in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
You will turn to page 92
Stand with me, please, and let's sing the first verse of Sweet Irish Prayer.